# 🎯 Our Manifesto

Simulation has played an crucial role in robotics research, providing a solid foundation for training robotic policies and generating data, leveraging the ever increasing power of computation. However, robotics researchers have long been limited by **usability issues** and **opaqueness** of available simulators. Existing GPU-accelerated simulators often come with steep learning curves due to intricate, **data-centric concepts**, **complex APIs**, and **complicated software stacks** — making mastering them a daunting task for researchers, especially for newcomers in the field. Furthermore, some simulators are closed-source, restricting transparency and limiting researchers' ability to understand, control, or iteratively improve the underlying physics solvers based on e.g. real-world observations and feedback.

The Genesis project was born from these challenges. Our vision is to build a fully transparent, user-friendly ecosystem where contributors from both physics simulation and robotics backgrounds can **come together to collaboratively create a high-efficiency, realistic (both physically and visually) virtual world for robotics research and beyond**. In addition, we recognize the wealth of innovative algorithms that are continuously developed by the computer graphics community for both simulation and rendering; however, there hasn't been a collaborative effort so far that attempts to bring together these algorithms to create a realistic and compute-powered virtual realm for embodied and physical intelligence to emerge.

So -- it’s about time! We aim to continuously develop Genesis and strive to make robotics research accessible and transparent to everyone. Meanwhile, we are aiming to bring the best of computer graphics technology into the robotics community, and build realistic virtual worlds for robots to explore and evolve. That’s what Genesis is all about -- new beginnings for robots, powered by an open and collaborative community.

During our development, we have focused on making Genesis as easy to use as possible, with intuitive APIs and a clean, lightweight design. But we’re a small team of researchers, so our initial first release would by no means be perfect. 
We welcome contributors from any background to join us and improve Genesis in ways that could benefit the entire community.

If you have feedback or suggestions while using Genesis -- whether it’s **bug reports**, **feature requests**, or even **ideas to make the API design better** -- please open an issue or submit a pull request on our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/Genesis-Embodied-AI/Genesis). We’d love to hear your thoughts and we appreciate any forms of contributions!